# Manual to Automatic

Things that are done in the energy body manually are transformed into things that are done automatically after you’ve already done them. That’s because the energy body is composed of blocks, and an action on the energy body is removing a block, allowing things to flow. Once the block is gone, the flow is automatic, and future blocks are removed by the same way that you removed the original block. This is because essentially, the flow is just the removal of the block, a way to process the block by the energy body in a natural way. It’s something that was stuck there from past events, which your body now knows how to deal with.

You’ve also created the pathway for that block to exist automatically. However, that’s not a problem if it automatically flows after it’s been created. This is what it means to live your karma, or to naturally process your karma. You naturally process it by having no blocks, because everything just flows. If everything is just flowing, you naturally process your karma. There is a difference between this kind of manual to automatic compared to habitual automation. Habitual automation is produced by the ignorance of a block. If you aren’t aware of a block, then you’re “automatically” controlled by it because you’re not aware that it’s controlling you.

All things can be reduced to blocks and the removal of those blocks to allow flow. Even the process of identifying individual blocks and removing them to allow flow. That’s the method of making intentionality flow. You intentionally do things automatically, as absurd as it sounds, by removing the block that is the “self”. It’s an ignorance, the ignorance of your true nature, which is that of something completely without obstruction, duality or ignorance, and by noticing that ignorance and allowing it to flow your actions become automatic and flow as well. This is despite there being previously “manual” or “intentional” actions to escape from habit. Now, the block that required that mental energy to be occupied while doing “intentional” actions is gone, so they are done automatically.

Thanks for reading, I have not experienced this personally and this was a thought experiment. Ladder 14.

